# Detecting-Panic-Disorder-Project
Systematic Approach in Detecting Panic Disorder Using Machine Learning 
The number of mental health disorders has increased tremendously in the past with over 25.6% increase which was exacerbated due to the COVID-19 outbreak leaving healthcare providers struggling to effectively cope and diagnose the rising number of mental health cases due to a shortage of well-trained mental health practitioners. Traditional diagnosis of mental health such as panic disorder involves a professional clinical review of the personal and family medical history of patients based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorder (DSM-5) criteria to evaluate the frequency and impact of panic attacks while excluding other disorders which can generate lots of data. Instant diagnosis research based on artificial intelligence and data science has been gaining lots of traction in the medical field recently and thus this study takes on the critical challenge of detecting panic disorder using machine learning, a quest made urgent as the number of healthcare practitioners tends to decline. Tapping into the Ayesha Clinic dataset obtained from an open data source, 120,000 participants' medical diagnosis records were assessed to predict panic disorder through a blend of statistical techniques to understand the demographic distribution in the dataset and advanced algorithms. The strategy includes scrutinising features via exploratory data analysis and pattern mining using the Apriori algorithm, followed by a rigorous comparison of various machine learning classifiers with various data compositions (balanced and unbalanced). The findings highlight the significant role of lifestyle factors, current stressors, and impact on life in contributing to the likelihood of panic disorder. The ensemble stacking model (model_3), however, outperformed every other model, showcasing the best diagnostic accuracy, sensitivity and specificity of 97% and AUC score of 0.99. This research not only showcases the impact of individuals' genetics, mental records and lifestyle behaviour in predicting panic disorder but also offers a potential pathway to revolutionize mental health diagnosis, making it faster and more accurate, which is a step forward in the management of mental health conditions.
